Components are the atomic building
block of Angular applications.
And inside of a component,
if we're going to talk about this,
we need to delineate,
there's kind of two kind of separate
things that are happening inside
of the component conceptually.
Is you have your template and
you have your class.
So your component classes
are just ES6 classes,
and when you define a property
on a component class,
or a method, that becomes available to
your template to bind to or execute.
And we can if we need to,
this doesn't happen a lot, but
you can, well, no,
this happens all the time, sorry.
That when you have a dependency for
a component,
that is made available by
injecting it into the constructor.
And so, providers or
dependencies, AKA services,
these become available via
injection into the constructor.
And one other thing that is
worth mentioning is that you
have a component lifecycle
that is exposed with hooks.
And so within a component,
you have a number of events that happen
within the lifespan of a component.
And we have the ability to
programmatically capture those and
execute some form of logic at these event
life cycle or these life cycle events.
So a component, you can see here
we have an items component,
and we have two properties on it,
items, selectedItem.
Now these are available for
our template to consume, and
we also have a dependency
on the item service.
So we need to use this to load our item.
So we inject this via the constructor and
it's available to us.
So more on that later, stay tuned.
On the flip side, we have our templates.
And so this is just HTML with some Angular
pieces in it that tells Angular how
to render a component, more importantly,
how to keep rendering the component.
So it includes data bindings as
well as it allows us to essentially
embed other components as children
into our parent components.
So keep that in mind.
Just a little mental note is that when
you want to make a component available or
use a component, it's done via a template.
And the upside for
this is or one thing that I
think Angular has done really well,
is prior to Angular,
so 1.x, so
I guess I will mention it a bit,
is we had all these custom
events that we could bind to,
and it just created a ton of
surface area for the framework.
Well in Angular,
what they decided to do is to just
simply leverage native DOM events.
And so a lot of times,
if you want to respond to a click event,
you will just simply bind to that native
DOM event, and then respond accordingly.
So there's also some interesting
things in terms of shadow DOM that
Angular leverages that allows you to
do kind of per component styling.
And I'm not gonna talk about view and
capsulation much, but
it is worth mentioning that you can
define styles at a component level.
And the problem with CSS is
the C stands for cascading,
and so if you've ever created something,
it looks amazing.
And you spent hours on this masterpiece,
then you turn it off or
you turn it over to your team to use.
And then somebody, some barbarian in some
other team sets this H1 tags to 72 font or
something and destroys it, that's
the plight of cascading stylesheets.
And so Angular uses some shadow DOM
under the hood to kind of mitigate that.
So in this case we
are defining our template,
external to our component class.
And this is the recommended way
of doing this, and personally and
stylistically, I prefer
this style than having your
template as an external file
separate from the class.
And the upside to this is that if you have
somebody that's strictly doing layout,
so if you work with a design team and
they're giving you layout, well,
you just need to pick up their HTML and
essentially put that in proximity.
Or put them into the template files and
then update it.
Whereas you can do this inline, and so
this is very much how it's done in React,
and
I think that there's nothing
morally wrong about this.
I personally, I prefer to have a clean
separation between declarative markup and
imperative logic.
But for simple cases,
this is an absolutely fine approach,
is just to have your template
inline to your component class.
So not a problem, I certainly am not going
to judge you or indict you in any way.
But every time I brought this up to
a React developer to where it's like,
well, what if you have a template
that's 400 lines long?
Well, the response is, if that happens,
that's not a React problem,
that is a much bigger problem in that
your component is too coarse grid.
And so they kind of use this as a canary
in a coal mine situation where if all of
a sudden you're looking at your
template and your component class,
and it's very, very large or
it starts to become unmanageable,
it's a good sign that you probably
need to create additional tractions.